# Salmonella genomics project
## Authors
Dr Mark Ziemann and 
Udari Ranasinge.
## Motivation
The motivation of the project is to perform the whole genome sequencing for Salmonella enterica serovar Weltevreden in terms of idintify the genes which are responsible for virulency.
## Contents
#Sequence quality check

* run_fastqc.sh:
inputs are the Illumina sequencing files in fq.gz format, qc analysis is done ans html file was generated with MUliQC and FastQC results. 
* assembly_pipeline.sh
Illumina sequencing reads were used as inputs in _R1.fq.gz format.De novo assembly has performed with ABySS pipeline resulting assembly for 40 isolates.
* test_abyss-params.sh
cycle through Kmer and coverage values to get the best assembly.
* run_quast.sh
assembly files in fasta foormat, resulted from unicycler or ABySS were used as input files.
QUAST anlysis was run for the assembly.

* metrics.sh
Assembly results in fasta fomat were used as input.
extract the metrics from the assembly results.
genetates tsv file whih displays number of contigs with each sample.

* metricsPlots_script_contigs.R
AbyssMetrics.tsv.txt whish contain quality merics for QUAST analysis for ABySS eembly was used as input.
make the plots in R studio to compare the assembly quality of the three scafolds sets C30, C40, and C50 in ABySS. 

* unic.sh
Illumina sequencing reads were used as input files.
unicycler was run for the Illumina sequencing reads.
Assembly files were generated.

* run_prokka.sh
unicycler assembly files i fasta format have used as input files.
Proka was run for the unicycler assembly.
annotation files were generated for each isolate.

* prep_roary.sh
Purpose is to generate compatible input files in fasta format for run roary.
Inputs were the annotation files in gff fomat which were resulted from prokka.
Outputs are the fasta files which contains prokka annotation.

* run_roary.sh
Purpose is to run roary in order to generate the pangenome.
Inputs are the annotation files in fasta format.
Output of roary are gene clusters, gene_presence_abscence.csv, gene_presence_abscence.Rtab and ext.

* gene_heatmap.R
Purpose is to generate gene_presence_abscence.heatmap, gene_correlation.diagram and hiarrachealclustering pdf using R studio in order to visualize the intensity of gene cluster destribution among the isolates.
Inputs are gene_presence_abscence.Rtab and clusters.txt resulted from Roary. 
Outputs are gene_presence_abscence.heatmap, gene_correlation.diagram and hiarrachealclustering pdf.

* extract_seq.sh
the gff3 files resulted from the Prokka anotation have used as input files.
extract every single gene from the gff3 files and convert into multifasta files(GENE.fa).
removed the parentheses becuuse it causes error with software.
perform the phylogenetic analysis for every single gene.
run the sequences through the clustalo and generrate the multiple aligment fasta files(FA.clu).

* codon_alignment_kaks.sh
Every single gene in fasta format have used as the input.
PRANK was run inorer to fing the molecular homology.

* extract_seq.sh
purpose is extracting Sequences for each gene in each isolate.
inputs were the all gff files resulted from prokka and gene_presence_abscence.Rtab resulred fronm Roary.
Output is the fasta file which contains sequences for each gene($GENE.fa) 

* codon_alignment_kaks.sh
Purpose is trnslating the gene sequence results from the "extract_seq.sh" into nucleotide and peptide sequences  .
Inputs are the extracted sequences from "extract_seq.sh".
Outputs are fasta files which contain nucleotide and peptide sequences.

* run_clustal.sh
Purpose is to characterise the homologs among core genes.
Inputs are the peptide sequences in fasta format resulted from "codon_alignment_kaks.sh".
Outpus are the alignment files $PEP.clu files which exhibit the homologs.

* kaks_calc.R
 Purposes are to extract maximum values for Ka and Ks and to generate correlation graphs of maximum Ka Vs Maximum Ks and highest median Ka Vs highest median Ks.
Inputs are the bes.nuc.fas files and alignment files in fasta format for each gene.Senqinr library of R has also used.
Outputs are the pdf documet of correlation graphs for maximum Ka, Ks and higher median ka and Ks.

* gene2uniprot.sh
Purpose is to extract the protein coding information from UniProt protein database.
Input was the UniProt database.
Output is the uniprot2go.tsv file which contain protein coding information in uniprot database.

* run_go_overrep.R
Purpose is to run fisher analysis in order to find out the overreprentative genes in pangenome.
Input files are gene_presence_abscence.Rtab, clusters.txt which were generated by roary, file uniprot2go.tsv resulted from gene2uniprot.sh.
Output is a table which generated with the ovverepresentative genes.

* run_topgo.R
Purpose is to get the size of the each cluster.
Inputs are, gene_presence_abscence.Rtab, clusters.txt which were generated by roary.
Output is a list which displays the size of the each cluster.
